Q 1. How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see the bug that was introduced?
  A. Git diff will enable us to see the lines that are only changed(either added or deleted or modified) from previous version instead of entire files.

Q 2. How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a better programmer in the long term?

  A.The entire history of a file helps to see the entire commits and contributions that enables us to find out any possible bugs and mistakes introduced into code. It will us help me to refactor the code without making multiple copies  or backups of the same file.

Q 3. What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a
commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google
docs does?

    A. By manual saving I can name each commit which will make it easier for me to comeback later and fix if there are any mistakes. Also automatically saving may save several versions or few version depending on the time involved in coding thus making it difficult to comeback and find out mistakes later.

Q 4. Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple
files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?

    A. In most software development, multiple files are involved for a single logical change. By allowing group multiple files Git makes it easier to access all related files in a single commit. However in Google Doc, multiple changes can be perormed for a single file which indicates that the Google Doc was developed as a product for different use than a version control system.

Q 5. How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?

    A. I can use git log to see different commits, date and changes made by different authors etc where as if I want to go deeper into a file and see its changes compared to its parent file then I use git diff.

Q 6. How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that could break something?

    A. By using version control system I will be confident to tweak codes, improve, refactor codes or introduce new features not worrying about messing up the entire applicatoin as I can save each changes as snapshots in form of commits. If I break something then I can go to previous commit and compare to its parent to analyze where the bug is introduced and can make changes accordingly.


Q 7. Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?

    A. I like to use Git for the Udacity Nanodegree course where I can work on different course modules according to convenience and time availability. I also use Git for my other Ruby on Rails projects where it helps me to keep track of my progress, introduce new features. I use Git to collaborate with other programmers to find out bug in my applications or adding features by other programmers who work remotely by sharing my repo.
