Q 1. When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?
  A. When I am developing an application with other developers it is more convenient to share my code with them when hosted as a remote repository. Also I can invite somebody to Github to review my code or opensource it where other developers can contribute freely to the repo. Another advantage is if I somehow delete my local folder the I can always go back to remote repo and access all my work.

Q 2. Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?
  A. If Git automatically pull any changes then I have no way of knowing where I am and if there are any bugs or changes introduced to the application. So it is always good idea to pull changes manually so that I am aware what are the changes I am introducing to my local repo in current pull.

Q 3. Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?
  A. Branching in Git is creating a branch of a repo where you can introduce new feature without affecting the master branch. In that way you can comeback to master branch whenever you would like to work on. Cloning is copying the entire repo. It can be either from remote to local machine or from one location to different location of the same local machine. Forking is cloning a repo on GitHub where you clone a repo to your account on Github site which later you can clone onto your local machine. In this case you need original creator's consent to add your changes into origin repo. When I want to work on other people's project or any oepn source project I can fork the master repository to my Github account and then clone to my local machine and can start working on it.


  Q 4. What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?
    A. The benefit of having a copy of last remote repo state is whenever I am offline or traveling or do not have internet access I can still work on it.

Q 5. How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?
  A. For any project that involves multiple people to work Github is an excellent platform to host your repo and work collaboratively. Without Git and GitHub, using Google and Dropbox might work upto some extent such as small projects involving single file but it definitely gets harder when you want to work on multiple files and make real time changes. The advantage of using Google Docs or Dropbox is you do not have to learn Git or VCS command but it will only take you so far. If somebody wants to work on multiple projects including contributing to open source ones then Github is the thing to be learned as most open source projects are hosted on GitHub. Also software companies where several programmers work from different locations host their proprietory codes on GitHub as private repo. So it is better to learn and use Github which I believe will be useful in long term.


